- Linux follows File system Hierarchy Standard (FHS).


- (/) The Root File System: 
The root FS is the top-level file system in the FHS and contains
many higher level directories holding specific information.



To view the directory structure: 
#- cd /
#- pwd 
#- ls (To view all directories under /)


- Key directroies in / that you need to know:
  
- /etc
- /root
- /media
- /mnt
- /boot
- /var
- /usr
- /opt
- /home
- /dev
- /proc
- /sys
- /tmp


- More information on these Key directories: 
 
- /etc: 

- The etcetera directory(aka etsy)holds system configuration files.
- Contains sub-directories such as systemd, default, lvm and skel 
that contain important configuration files.
#- ls etc (To look at the configuration files and directories).



- /root: (Not to confuse with /)

This is the default home directory for the root user (super user).


- /media: 

This directory is used by the system to automatically mount 
removable media, such as floppy, CD, DVD, USB and Zip drives.


- /mnt: 

This directory is used to mount file system temporarily.


- /boot (The Boot File System):

The /boot file system contains the Linux kernel, boot support 
files and boot configuration files. Default size of this FS is
500MB and it maybe expanded.


- /var (The Variable File System): 

The /var directory contains files holding log, status, spool, 
lock and oher dynamic data
More importantly error logs. Important sub-directories are:

- /var/log: 
Most system log files such as system logs, boot logs, failes user
logs, installation logs, cron logs etc..

- /var/opt: 
Keeps logs for any additional software installed in /opt.

- /var/spool: 
Directories that hold print jobs, cronjobs, mail messages and other
queued items located here before they are sent out.

- /var/tmp: 
Temporary files that need to exist for longer periods of time
than what is allowed in /tmp are stored here. These files can
survive reboots and are not automatically deleted.



- /opt (The Optional File System): 

Holds additional software installed on the system. A sub-directory
is created for each installed software.


- /home (The Home File System): 
This FS holds user home directories for each user.



- /dev (The Devices File System): 

It contains device nodes for physical harware and virtual devices.
Linux kernel communicates with these device through corresponding
nodes.
These device nodes are created and deleted by udevd service.

There are 2 types of device files character (or raw) device files
and block device files:

-Character devices are accessed serially, examples:
Serial printers, mice, keboards, tape drive, etc

- Block devices are accessed in a parallel fashion, examples:
Hard disk drives, optical drives, parallel printers, etc.





- /proc (The Process File System): 

This FS maintains info about the current state of the running
kernel, CPU, memory, disks. partitioning, file systems, networking
and running processes.
/proc system is automatically managed by the system. Contents in 
/proc are created in memory at boot time, updated during runtime
and destroyed at boot time.

#- cat /proc/cpuinfo
#- cat /proc/meminfo	


- /sys (The System filesystem): 

Information about configured hotplug hardware devices is stored
and maintained in /sys. This info is referenced for loading kernel
modules, creating device nodes in /dev directory and configuring
each device. FS is auto maintained as well.


-tmp (The Temporary File System): 
Stores temporary files used by many programs and the contents of 
this filesystem are automatically deleted when system reboots.
































































