- Linking files and directories

-Before looking at soft and hard links, let's look at
some basics that you must understand:


- Let's look at the result of below command: 

        #- ll /usr/sbin/vigr 

`lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root 4 Dec 20 06:10 /usr/sbin/vigr 
-> vipw`    

- Each file in a system has many attributes assigned to 
it at the time of its creation known as metadata. These
include file's type, size, permissions, owners name
owners group name, ACL, links and other related info.

This metadata info has to be stores somewhere.
This metadata info takes only 128-bytes of space and
this tiny storage space is knows as inode (index node)
Inode assigns a numeric identifier to each file which 
is used by the kernel.


To find out inode number of a file use below command:

    #- ll -i /usr/sbin/vigr 

`99699 lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root 4 Dec 20 06:10 `
`/usr/sbin/vigr -> vipw`

`99699 `= inode number

--------


- Soft and hard links

- Soft links (aka symlink or symbolic link):  

Soft links are similar to a short cut in windows, they 
point to another file. 

Example: 
- Create a soft link called file2 to an existing
file called file1: 

        #- ln -s file1 file2
        #- ll file2
`lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root root 5 May 10 15:34 file2 -> file1`

`l` = soft link
`->` = points to the linked file


- Show inodes of both files:

        #- ll -i file*
Inodes assigned to both files are different.

Note: If the original file is deleted symlink becomes 
useless as it is a shortcut to a file that does not
exist.

----

- Hard link: 

Hard link associates one or more files with a single
inode number unlike a softlink.
This also implies that any changes made to original 
file will also be applied to the hard linked file.


Example: 

- Create a hard link called file2 to an existing 
file called file1. 

        #- ln file1 file2
        #- ll -i file*

`200622 -rw-r--r--. 2 root root 0 May 10 15:34 file1`
`200622 -rw-r--r--. 2 root root 0 May 10 15:34 file2`

As you can see both files have the same inode number.
200622 is the inode number
2 represents number of hard links

Note: If one file is deleted the other file will 
exist unlike a symlink.



































