- Linux offers 3 types of special permission bits that
maybe set on executable files or directories to 
respond differently for certain operations.

These special permission bits are:

- setuid (set user identifier) bit
- setgid (set group identifier) bit
- sticky bit


- The setuid and setgid:

- These 2 bits can provide non-owners and non-group 
owners the ability to run executables with same access
as the owner and group owner.


- Setuid bit on executable files:

Setuid bit flag can provide regular users the ability 
to run the same access as the owner of the executable 
file.
It is represented by an s in the owner's permission
class. 

Example: 

    #- ll /usr/bin/su
`-rwsr-xr-x. 1 root root 32096 Dec  1 18:28 /usr/bin/su`

`s` = setuid bit

- Login with a regular user and run su command.

- Lets remove the setuid flag 
        
        #- chmod u-s /usr/bin/su
        #- ll /usr/bin/su
`-rwxr-xr-x. 1 root root 32096 Dec  1 18:28 /usr/bin/su`

Setuid bit has been removed, let try to run su again 
as a regular user.
su: Authentication failure

- To re-add setuid bit:

        #- chmod u+s /usr/bin/su
        #- ll /usr/bin/su
`-rwsr-xr-x. 1 root root 32096 Dec  1 18:28 /usr/bin/su`

re-added setuid bit represented by `s`.

- You can also use numbers to apply setuid bit.

Example:

    #- chmod u+s /usr/bin/su
or 
    
    #- chmod 4755 /usr/bin/su

4 adds the the setuid bit.

- To search for all files with setuid bit permissions:

        #- find / -perm -4000

------------

Setgid bit on executable files:

- Setgid bit is set on executable files at the group 
level. Setgid bit flag can provide regular users the 
ability to run the same access as the group members of 
the executable file.
It is represented by an s in the group's permission
class. 

Example: 

    #- ll /usr/bin/wall

-r-xr-sr-x. 1 root tty 15344 Jun  9  2014 /usr/bin/wall
s is the stickybit flag in group permissions


To remove setgid bit: 

    #- chmod g-s /usr/bin/wall

To add setgid bit: 
    
    #- chmod g+s /usr/bin/wall
 or 

    #- chmod 2555 /usr/bin/wall


- To search for all files with setgid bit permissions:

        #- find / -perm -2000

-------------

- Stickybit: 

Sticky bit is set on public writeable directories to 
prevent moving or deletion by regular users.

Example: 

#- ll -d /tmp
drwxrwxrwt. 7 root root 93 May 11 04:00 /tmp/

t = stickybit in other's permissions


- The stickybit can be set by following command:
- Create a directory

        #- mkdir dir1

-Add stickybit with rwx permissions to all

    #- chmod o+t /tmp

    #- chmod 777 /tmp
or

    #- chmod 1777
    #- ll dir1

To remove stickybit

        #- chmod o-t dir1
or

        #- chmod 777 dir1

1 sets the sticky bit.

- To search for all files with stickybit permissions:

        #- find / -type d -perm -1000




























