- Linux (Currently using RHEL 7.4 distro) supports 
several different types of files.

Some of the common file types are listed below: 
- Regular files
- Directory files
- Executable files
- Symbolic link files
- Device files


- Regular files:

Regular files may contain text or binary data. These
files could be command in the binary form or shell
scripts.

Examples:

    #- ls /bin
    #- file .bash_profile


- Directory files: 

Directories are logical containers that are used to 
hold files and sub-directories.

Examples:

    #- ll / 

Letter d at the begining identifies the file as a 
directory.

    #- file /

    Identifies / as a directory


- Executable Files: 

Any file that can be run is an executable, they could 
be shell scripts or binary commands.

Examples: 

    #- ll /usr/bin (x means it is executable)

    #- file /usr/bin/whoami (executable command)


- Symbolic link files(aka symlink or softlink): 

These can be considered as a shortcut to another file 
or directory. Begins with letter l and shows an arrow.

Examples: 

    #- ll /usr/sbin/vigr

`l` = soft link

`->` = point to original file

    #- file /usr/sbin/vigr



- Device Files: 

Each piece of hardware in the system has an associated
file called device file. 

Two types of device files are: 

- character (or raw) device file
- block device file

Examples: 

    #- ll /dev/sda 
    #- ll /dev/tty

First character b represents block device file

First character c represents character device file.

    #- file /dev/sda

    #- file /dev/tty













 

















































