# Variables: 

- A variable is a temporary storage of data in memory.
Stored information is used for customizing the shell
environment and by many system and application processes
to function properly. 

- There are 2 types of variables: local and environment.

-The value of a local variable is only available in the
current shell and not in the sub-shell.

- The value of an environment variable can be passed 
from current to sub-shell during the execution of a
script. Which means value stored in an environment
variable is passed from the parent process to the child
process. 

- Some environment variables are defined automatically
through system and user startup files at log in such as:

DISPLAY  - stores hostname or IP for X terminal
HISTFILE - Define files for storing history of commands
HOME     - Sets the home directory path
LOGNAME  - Stores the login name
PWD      - Stores the current directory location
SHELL    - Holds the absolute path to primary shell file


Setting an Unsetting Varaiables and View their Values

-Local and environment variables may be set or unset at
the command prompt or via programs, and their values
may be viewed and used as necessary. 

-Uppercase letters for naming variables are recommended
to avoid any possible conflicts with existing command,
program, file or directory names.

Examples: 

- Define a local variable called VR1:
$- VR1=rhel7

- To view the stored value in VR1: 
$- echo $VR1

To make this variable an environment variable: 

$- export VR1

- To undefine this variable: 

$- unset VR1


- Define a local variable with white spaces:

$- VR1="This is a Test"

echo $VR1

- set command lists current values for all shell 
variables, including local and environment variables.


- To modify primary prompt for a user :
$- export PS1="<$LOGNAME@$(hostname):\$PWD>"

- Command prompt for user 1 now looks like: 

<1@centos:/home/example>






























