# Bash shell

- The bash shell gives us the flexibility to redirect
input, output, and error messages. 

This allows programs and commands to read input from a
non-default source and forward output or errors to a 
non-default destination.



- Redirecting standard Input:

Input redirection instructs a command to read the
required information from a file instead of the keyboard
The '<' (less than) character is used for input 
redirection.

- Redirecting standard input: 
Example:

#- cat < /etc/cron.allow 

--------

- Redirecting standard Output '>' (greater than sign):

Output redirection sends the output generated by a
command to an alternative destination. The > sign is
is used for this purpose. You can redirect the output
to file with the  > sign to overwite the mentioned
file or append to it by using >> signs.

Example: 

- Redirecting standard output to a file:

#- ll > file2 
 or 
#- ll >> file2 (to append)

#- cat file2

--------

- Redirecting standard error:

Error redirection forwards an error messages generated
to an alternative destination - such as a file.

-Example:

#- find / -name core -print 2> /dev/null

This command will find all occurences of files by the
name core in the entire root directory and send any 
errors to /dev/null (/dev/null is used to discard data).



- Redirecting both standard output and error: 
Following example shows you how to forward both error
and standard output to a file.

- Example: 

#- ls /nothing &> test

There is no file or directory called nothing so the 
the ls command will run, produce an error and send it
to a file called test. 

Note: Test file will be created if it does not already 
exist.

#- cat test





























