# The shadow File: 

The implementation of shadow password mechanism provides
secure password security for local users.

With this mechanism in place not only user passwords are
are encrypted and stored in /etc/shadow file but limits
such as password expiration, warning period, etc., can
also be applied on a per-user basis.
#- cat /etc/shadow


These limits and other settings are defined in the
/etc/login.defs file and are enforced on user accounts.
The shadow file is only readable by the root user for 
security purposes.
#- grep -v ^# /etc/login.defs


If shadow password mechanism is active a user existence
is first checked in /etc/passwd and then in shadow for 
authentication.



Examples:

#- grep user /etc/shadow

test:$6$Mgwnh$.2ZrafQ::0:99999:7:::
root:$6$03YAalCcIBR1::0:99999:7:::
- There are 9 colon : separated fields per line entry.

1- Test = Username

2- Encrypted Password = $6$Mgwnh$.2ZrafQx
! sign at the beginning of line means account is locked

3- Blank = lastchg days (Date when pw was last modified)
Blank = pw aging not applied, 0 = Change pw at login.

4- 0 = minday (Min # of days before pw can be changed)

5- 99999 = maxdays (Max # of days of pw validity)

6- 7 = warndays 
Number of days a user gets Warning to change pw 

7- Blank = inactive days 
Max number or days allowed of user inactivity
Blank or null means feature is disabled

8- Blank - Disabled days 
Number of days before user account expires

9- Blank - Reserved for future use.




























