# LVM (Logical Volume Manager):

The LVM solution is widely used for managing disk
storage.

Managing disk space has always been a significant 
and time consuming task for system adminstrators.

Running out of disk space used to be the start of a
long and complex series of tasks to increase the space 
available to a disk partition. It also required taking 
the system off-line. This usually involved installing a 
new hard drive, booting to recovery or single-user mode,
creating a partition and a filesystem on the new hard 
drive, using temporary mount points to move the data 
from the too-small filesystem to the new, larger one,
changing the content of the /etc/fstab file to reflect
the correct device name for the new partition, and 
rebooting to remount the new filesystem on the 
correct mount point.


LVM allows for very flexible disk space management. 
It provides features like the ability to add disk space
to a logical volume and its filesystem while that 
filesystem is mounted and active and it allows for the 
collection of multiple physical hard drives and 
partitions into a single volume group which can then be
divided into logical volumes.


Structure:

-Physical Hard drive
  - PV (Physical Volume)
     - VG (Volume Group)
	- LV (Logical Volume)
	    - Filesystem 



Practical Use:

- Create a Physical Volume:
# lsblk (To check available disks)


- Create a PV (Physical Volume)
# pvcreate /dev/sdb

- Confirm
# pvs


Create a VG (Volume Group)called test_vg on sdb
# vgcreate test_vg /dev/sdb

- To Check
# vgs
or
# vgdisplay


- Create a Logical Volume called example_lv on test_vg
Volume Group - Size of 50 MB:

- lvcreate -n example_lv -L 50M test_vg

- Check
# lvs
or
# lvdisplay /dev/test_vg/example_lv


To be able to use and mount this LV

- Create a ext3 Filesystem:

# mkfs.ext3 /dev/test_vg/example_lv


To mount this LV on a directory /tmp/example:

- Make a directory under /tmp
# mkdir example

Now mount the LV:

#  mount /dev/test_vg/example_lv /tmp/example

- Check 
# df -h

Note: This is not permanent, to make this permanent
you need to add this entry in /etc/fstab:

# /dev/mapper/test_vg-example_lv  /tmp/example ext3
defaults 1 2


Extend a Volume Group and Logical Volume:


- Add disk or use existing VG if space is available:
# pvcreate /dev/sdc
# vgextend test_vg /dev/sdc

- Check 
# vgs


- Extend a Logical Volume:

# lvextend -L 100M /dev/test_vg/example_test

Check:
#df -h
Size has not changed yet.

- Run the followinf command:
# resize2fs /dev/test_vg/example_lv

- Check again
# df -h

Success.



 To remove LV, VG and PV:

- To Remove a Logical Volume:
# unmount /tmp/exampe
# lvremove -f /dev/test_vg/example_lv


- To Remove a Volume Group:

# vgs
# vgremove test_vg

Check:
# vgs


- To remove a Physical Volume:

# pvs
# pvremove /dev/sdb

Check:
# pvs

# lsblk
see sdb as unassigned





































