# Basic Network components you must know:

```IP Address

Subnet Mask

Gateway

Static vs DHCP

Ethernet and Virtual Interface

MAC Address 
```


IP Address:
An Internet Protocol address is a numerical label 
assigned to each device connected to a computer network
that uses the Internet Protocol for communication.

Most networks today, including all computers on the 
Internet, use the TCP/IP protocol as the standard for 
how to communicate on the network. In the TCP/IP 
protocol, the unique identifier for a computer is 
called its IP address.

There are two standards for IP addresses: IP Version 4 
(IPv4) and IP Version 6 (IPv6). All computers and 
networked devices with IP addresses have an IPv4 address
and many are starting to use the new IPv6 address system
as well.

IPv4:

IPv4 uses 32 binary bits to create a single unique 
address on the network. An IPv4 address is expressed by
four numbers separated by dots.
Example: 192.168.123.132

Each number represents eight-digit binary number, also 
called an octet.
These eight bit sections are known as octets. 
The example IP address, then, becomes 
11000000.10101000.01111011.10000100
192     .168     .123     . 132 

IPv6:

When the Internet exploded, IPv6 was created as it was
realized that we may run out of IPv4 addresses.
IPv6 uses 128 binary bits to create a single unique 
address on the network. 
An IPv6 address is expressed by eight groups of 
hexadecimal numbers separated by colons:

2001:cdba:0000:0000:0000:0000:3257:9652

Groups of numbers that contain all zeros are often 
omitted to save space:

2001:cdba::3257:9652



- Subnet Mask and subnetting:

The practice of dividing a network into two or more 
networks is called subnetting.

For IPv4, a network may also be characterized by its 
subnet mask or netmask.
For example: 255.255.255.0 is the subnet mask for the 
prefix 198.51.100.0/24.


- Gateway:
A gateway is a network node that connects two networks
using different protocols together. While a bridge is 
used to join two similar types of networks, a gateway is
used to join two different networks.

Common Gateway is your home modem or your router.



- Static IP vs DHCP or Dynamic IP:

A Static IP address is a dedicated IP address that does
not change. This is an IP address that is used by your 
system every time you log in to the network. 
DHCP or Dynamic is an IP address that will automatically
be chosen for you from a pool of IP addresses that are 
assigned in the DHCP scope available on your network.
Think Static as permanent and DHCP as temporary IP.



Ethernet and Virtual Interface

- Ethernet Interface:

This usally the NIC (Network Interface card) that is on
that back of your computer a.k.a. NIC Card.

- Virtual Interface:

Very common now in Virtual environments such as Oracle
VM virtualbox, VMWare etc. 
Virtual interfaces exist only in software; there are no
physical elements. You identify an individual virtual 
interface using a numerical ID after the virtual 
interface name such as eth0.


MAC address:

Every NIC virtual or physical has a hardware address 
that's known as a MAC.
MAC stands for Media Access Control, and each identifier
is intended to be unique to a particular device.

A MAC address consists of six sets of two characters, 
each separated by a colon:

Example:

00:1B:44:11:3A:B7

















