# Network Adapter Files:

Network interface configuration files are located in the
/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts directory.

# cd /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-

- You can use ip addr command to display your available 
network interfaces.
Older systems you can use ifconfig.

# ip addr
# ifconfig

- Find your hostname or servername:

# hostname
or 
# hostnamectl

# cat /etc/hostname	


- To /View Edit IP for hostname:

# cat /etc/hosts


- To View Change your DNS name:

# cat /etc/resolv.conf
Shows your Router address if home network - via ISP.
8.8.8.8 is Google's name server.


- To bring your Interface up and down
# ifup eth0 or enp0s3
# ifdown eth0 or enp0s3


- Ping

PING (Packet INternet Groper) command is the best way to
test connectivity between two nodes. Whether it is Local
Area Network (LAN) or Wide Area Network (WAN). 
Ping uses ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) to 
communicate to other devices.

Example:

# ping google.com

or 
- Ping with -c option exit after N number of request.

# ping -c 3 google.com



- traceroute Command: 

traceroute is a network troubleshooting utility which 
shows number of hops taken to reach destination also 
determine packets traveling path. 

Example

- trace google.com

# traceroute google.com




- Netstat (Network Statistic):

Netstat command displays connection info, routing table 
information etc. To displays routing table information 
use option as -r.

# netstat -r



- Route command

Shows default routing table in Linux

# route




















