Once an encrypted channel is established between the 
client and server, additional negotiations take place
between the two to authenticate the user trying to gain
acces to the server. 


Open SSH offers several methods for this purpose, listed 
below in the order in which they are attempted during
the authentication process:

- GSSAPI - based authentication
- Host based authentication
- Private/Public key based authentication
- Challenge response authentication
- Password based authentication


GSSAPI - based authentication: 

It provides a standard interface that allows security
mechanism such as Kerberos to be plugged in. OpenSSH
uses this interface and kerberos for authentication.

With this method, an exchange of tokens takes place
between the client and server to validate user identity.

This method is only supported in OpenSSH version 2.


Host based authentication: 

Allows a single user, a group of users or all users on
the client to be authenticated on the server.
A user may be configured to login with a matching user
name on the server or as a differnt user that exists on
the server.
Each user that requires an automatic entry on the server
a .shosts file is set up in the user's home directory.

Group of users or all users setup is done in the 
/etc/ssh/shosts.equiv file.



Private/Public key based authentication:

This method uses a private/public key combination for
user authentication. The user on the client has a public
key and the server stores the corresponding private key.

When user tries to login, the server prompts the user to
enter the key and lets the user login if the key is
validated.


Challenge response authentication: 

This method is based on response to one or more 
challenge questions that the user has to answer 
correctly in order to gain login access to the server.


Password based authentication:

Server prompts the user to enter their password. It
checks the password against the stored entry in the
/etc/shadow file and allows the user to login if the 
password is confirmed.




















