# Controlling Processes with Signals: 

A system may have hundreds or thousands of processes
running simultaneously on it. 

It is sometimes necessary to alert a process of an 
event.
We can accomplish that by send a control signal to the
process.


Processes can send a signal to alert each other as well

A process will halt its execution as soon as it gets
the signal and take appropriate action as per the 
enclosed instructions in that signal.


The signal can instruct the process to terminate
gracefully, kill it abruptly or force it to re-read
its configuration.


There are many signals available for use but we will
mostly deal with only a few of them.


Each signal is associated with a unique numeric 
identifier, a name and an action.

- List of available signals can be displayed by using
the kill  command with -l option:

#- kill -l


Examples:

1- SIGHUP: 

Hang up signal causes a process to disconnect itself 
from a closed terminal it was tied to.
Can also instruct a a running daemon to re-read its
configuration.

2- SIGINT: 

The ^c signal issued on the controlling terminal can
interrupt the execution of a process.

9- SIGKILL: 

Kills a process abruptly.

15- SIGTERM: 

Sends the signal to stop a process in an orderly way.
This is the default signal and can be ignored by a 
process.



Commands:

The commands kill and pkill are used to send a signal
to a process. Regular users can kill processes that 
they own and root user can kill any process.


- pkill: 
The pkill command needs process name(s) to send a 
signal to.

Examples: 
- To kill with default soft termination signal: 
#- pkill top

- To kill forcefully right away use:

#- pkill -9 top


- kill
The kill command needs PID(s) to send a signal.

Examples:

- To kill with default soft termination signal: 
#- kill top

- To kill forcefully right away use:

#- kill -9 top


- The command killall can be used to terminate all
processes that match provided criteria.

Example: 

#- killall top




















